We welcome all contributions to Haret, whether code, documentation or ideas raised in comments and
issues.

There are a few technical guidelines shown below to make contributing smoother and easier. However,
before that we'd like to ask that you treat all interactions on project related communication
mediums by remembering that there are real people on the other side. We hope to foster an
inclusive and diverse set of contributors and users, and we can't do this without everyone agreeing
to act in a respectful manner when dealing with the project and each other.


## Pull Requests
Any changes to code or documentation should be submitted via pull request. Pull requests must pass
all tests, and should contain test code for most changes or fixes.

The haret project team welcomes contributions from the community. If you wish to contribute code and
you have not signed our contributor license agreement (CLA), our bot will update the issue when you
open a Pull Request. For any questions about the CLA process, please refer to our
[FAQ](https://cla.vmware.com/faq).


## Documentation
All documentation exists in the `docs` directory, or in source code comments. Patches can therefore
also be submitted as pull requests, and should be.


## I want to help.
While we welcome all contributions, there are some tasks that are easier to get started with than
others, and are a good way to introduce yourself to the project. We've marked all these tasks with
the [Help
Wanted](https://github.com/vmware/v2r2/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) tag.
Please look here first if you are a newcomer to the project. If you do decide to work on one of
these issues leave a comment so others know that you are taking on the task. Although, be aware that
other contributions for the same issue may still come in from elsewhere and be considered if the
issue has not been resolved.

For issues that aren't marked `Help Wanted`, that doesn't mean that you can't help or work on them.
It simply means that there may be complications such as there being no acceptable solution decided
upon yet. In that case it can very much be worth leaving a comment asking a question or suggesting a
solution for a problem. We'd love for a comment to spark a discussion and allow us to learn from each
other.
